GIT
GLOBAL INFORMATION TRACKER
WORKING DIRECTORY: 
STAGING AREA: 
REPOSITORY: 
Git is used to track the files.
It will maintain multiple versions of the same file.
It is platform-independent.
It is free and open-source.
They can handle larger projects efficiently.
It is 3rd generation of vcs.
it is written on c programming
it came on the year 2005
In this stage git is only aware of having files in the project.
It will not track these files until we commit those files.
The staging area is like a rough draft space, it's where you can git add the version of a file
or multiple files that you want to save in your next commit.
In other words, in the next version of your project.
Repository in Git is considered as your project folder.
A repository has all the project-related data. 
It contains the collection of the files and also history of changes made to those files.
TYPES OF REPOSITORIES:
LOCAL REPO: 
The Local Repository is everything in your .git directory. Mainly what you will see in your
Local Repository are all of your checkpoints or commits. It is the area that saves everything
(so don’t delete it).
REMOTE REPO:
The remote repository is a Git repository that is stored on some remote computer.
GIT ALTERNATIVES:
GIT WORK FLOW:
GIT LAB
 SVN
BIT BUCKET
P4
STASH
HELIX 
INSTALL GIT:
GIT ADD:
GIT COMMIT:
1.  command to install git : yum install git -y (yum: yellowdog updater modifier)
2.  To check the git version: git --version
3.  to get empty repo : git init .
4.  To track the file: git add file_name
5.  To track the multiple files : git add aws azure gcp
6.  all regular files: git add *
7.  including hidden files: git add .
Git add command is a straightforward command. It adds files to the staging area. 
We can add single or multiple files at once in the staging area.
Every time we add or update any file in our project, it is required to forward updates to
the staging area. 
The staging and committing are co-related to each other.
It is used to record the changes in the repository. 
It is the next command after the git add. 
Every commit contains the index data and the commit message.
GIT STATUS:
GIT CONFIGURE:
if you want to give your username and E-mail id to those commits then 
GIT LOG: is a command in the Git version control system that shows a history of commits
made in a Git repository. It displays a list of past changes, including information like the
commit message, author, date, and a unique identifier for each commit.
COMMANDS:
GIT AMEND: it is a Git command used to make changes to the most recent Git commit. It
allows you to edit the commit message, add additional changes, or both.
The git status command is used to display the state of the repository and staging area. 
It allows us to see the tracked, untracked files and changes. 
This command will not show any commit records or information.
1.  git config user.name "username" : command to set username
2.  git config user.email "userxyz@gmail.com" : command to set mail-id 
git log used to see the history of the git
git log --oneline used to see only commit ID's and messages
git log --pretty=oneline Used to get only commit ID's and messages
git log -1 used to see the latest commit
git log -3 used to see latest 3 commits
git log --follow --all filename used to see the no of commits for a single
file
git log --graph --oneline --all see all the history in graph
COMMANDS:
GIT RESET: is a command in Git that allows you to move the HEAD and the current branch
pointer to a specific commit, effectively "rewinding" or "resetting" your project's state. It's
commonly used to undo changes or to unstage commits.
COMMANDS:
GIT REVERT: is a command that allows you to undo or reverse the changes made in a
previous commit. It creates a new commit that undoes the changes introduced by the
specified commit, effectively taking your code back to a previous state without deleting
commit history
git commit --amend -m "message" used to change the commit message for a
latest commit
git commit --amend --author "username
<mail>"
used to change the author of latest commit
git commit --amend --no-edit used to commit the changes with previous
commit
git reset --hard HEAD~1 used to delete the latest commit along
with the changes
git reset --hard HEAD~3 used to delete the latest 3 commits along
with the changes
git reset --soft HEAD~1 used to delete only commits but not
actions/changes
git reset --soft HEAD~3 used to delete only latest commits but not
actions/changes
GIT IGNORE:
GIT BRANCHES:
COMMANDS:
git revert commit_id used to delete a particular commit action
and add a new commit for the change
It will be useful when you don't want to track some specific files then we use a file called
.gitignore
create some text files and create a directory with "jpg" files.
A branch represents an independent line of development.
The git branch command lets you create, list, rename, and delete branches.
The default branch name in Git is master.
allows you to work on different features or changes to your code independently, without
affecting the main or other branches.
It's a way to organize and manage your code changes, making it easier to collaborate and
maintain your project.
git branch used to see the list of branches
git branch branch-name to create a branch
git checkout branch-name to switch one branch to another
git checkout -b branch-name used to create and switch a branch at a
time
git branch -m old-branch new-branch used to rename a branch
git branch -d branch-name to delete a branch
git branch branch-name deleted-branch-id Used to get deleted branch id
git branch -D branch-name to delete a branch forcefully
The -d option will delete the branch only if it has already been pushed and merged with the
remote branch. Use -D instead if you want to force the branch to be deleted, even if it hasn't
been pushed or merged yet. The branch is now deleted locally.
Now all the things you have done is on your local system.
GIT MERGE:
Git merge is a command used in the Git version control system to combine changes from one
branch.
To merge: git merge branch_name 
GIT CHERRY-PICK:
Git cherry-pick is a command in Git that allows you to take a specific commit from one branch
and apply it to another branch. It's like picking a cherry (commit) from one branch and adding
it to another branch, allowing you to selectively copy individual commits without merging the
entire branch.
Command: git cherry-pick commit_id
GIT MERGE CONFLICTS:
GIT makes merging super easy!
CONFLICTS generally araise when two people two people have changed the same lines in a
file (or) if one developer deleted a file while another developer is working on the same file!
In this situation git cannot determine what is correct!
Lets understand in a simple way!
cat>file1 : hai all
add & commit 
git checkout -b branch1
cat>file1 : 1234
add & commit 
git checkout master
cat>>file1 : abcd
add & commit 
git merge branch1 : remove it
git diff file1
vim file1
git add 
git commit -m "final commits"
NOTE: Don't give file name on commit
Identify Merge Conflicts:
see the file in master branch then you will see both the data in a single file including branch
names that are dividing with conflict messages 
Resolve Conflicts:
open file in VIM EDITOR and delete all the conflict dividers and save it!
add git to that file and commit it with the command (git commit -m "merged and resolved the
conflict issue in abc.txt")
GIT REBASE: Git rebase is a Git command used to incorporate changes from one branch
into another. It allows you to re-organize and streamline the commit history by moving or
combining commits from one branch onto another. 
Command: git rebase-branch
GIT STASH: Using the git stash command, developers can temporarily save changes made
in the working directory. It allows them to quickly switch contexts when they are not quite
ready to commit changes. And it allows them to more easily switch between branches.
Generally, the stash's meaning is "store something safely in a hidden place." 
COMMANDS:
GIT TAGS: it tags are markers or labels that you can place on specific commits (versions) in
a Git repository. These tags provide a way to give meaningful names to important points in
the project's history, such as software releases or significant milestones.
COMMANDS:
git stash to delete the changes permanently
git stash save "message" to save the stash along with the message
git stash apply to get back the data again
git stash list to get the list of stashes
git stash clear to clear all stashes
git stash pop to delete the first stash
git stash drop used to delete the latest stash
git stash drop stash@{2} used to delete a praticular stash
GIT-HUB
COMMANDS:
git tag To see the list of tags
git tag tagname To create normal tag
git tag -a -m "message" tagname To create annotated tag
git tag -d tagname To delete a tag
git show tagname To see the details of the tag
GitHub is a web-based platform used for version control. 
It simplifies the process of working with other people and makes it easy to collaborate on
projects. 
Team members can work on files and easily merge their changes in with the master
branch of the project.
git remote add origin repo-url link local-repo to central-repo
git remove -v used to get the linked repo in github
git push -u origin branch-name push the code from local to central
git push -u origin branch-1 branch-2 used to push the code to multiple
branches
git push -u origin --all used to push the code to all branches at a
time
git clone repo-url used to get the code from central to local
git pull origin branch used to get the chanes from central to
local
git fetch branch-name used to fetch the data from central to local
git fetch --all used to fetch the changes from all
branches in github
git merge origin/branch used to merge the changes from cental to
local
git push -u origin --delete branch-name used to delete the github branch from
local
git remote rm origin used to unlink the github-repo
git remote rename old -link new-link used to change the repo
